[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Promises,
pretty good at their core.
But there's an awful lot of
Abstractions that were missing.
And Abstractions are what are one of the
powerful tools that we use to make higher
and higher order patterns that let us be
more and more expressive with our code.
I want to talk to you about a few
Abstractions is the first couple
are things that are built in directly
into the promise API in the browser.
Then we'll talk about other Abstractions
that are available to us through third
party and libraries that wrap and build on
top of promises with other Abstractions..
The first one we can talk
about is Promise.all.
Promise,all takes an array of promises.
As you can see, you have an array
of promises that are coming
from these doTask methods,
doTask1a, 1b and 1c.
Now what it's going to do is
obviously all of those functions
are being call which means
they're all producing promises.
We can imagine that that's like
three independent AJAX calls
happening all at once.
And then we're going to wait for
all of those to finish and
you'll notice that we get an array of
those results, passed into us on line 6.
There array of results, will have
the array of results from each of those
promises in the order they were
listed in the original array.
Regardless of what order they finish in,
they're in a predictable
order which is request order.
This is allowing us to say,
I don't want to just wait for one promise.
I've got three that need
to happen in parallel.
And then I need to wait for
all of them to finish before moving on.
You notice the Promise.all is giving us
a promise which were then [INAUDIBLE]
off of on line 6.
And what we're getting as the completion
result from that previous promise,
is an array of all the results and
here I'm just a silly illustration
I'm doing Math.max across
those three results.
We might have been task 1a, 1b and
1c might have been to
generate some random number.
We're gonna ask for the maximum of
the three numbers that was generated and
then return and
pass that in to doTask2 and that returns
a promise which we can of course change.
The point that we're making here, is that
each step in a promise chain can be as
simple as, chaining in another promise,
can be as simple as just an immediate
value that we return or
it could be something more complex,
a higher order abstraction like
a Promise.call that we see here.
Old school computer science terminology
we use for this we call this a gate.
Whenever you have multiple
things happening,
you do not know what order
they're gonna finish in, but
all of them need to finish before
moving on, we call that a gate.
The API here is Promise.all but
you can think of that as a gate.
Now if any one of those three
promises creates a rejection,
the main problem the one that
we're chaining off of on line six,
that main promises immediately rejected.
So .all requires successful completion.
You could think of an abstraction where I
don't care about successful completion,
I just need all of them to finish
either positively or negatively.
And that would be a different abstraction.
You can start to think there is actually
quite a few different abstractions that we
can invent.
You might invent an abstraction like I
want to be notified when the first one
finishes or
when the first one finishes or fails.
And that abstraction,
the one I just mention, which is
I want to be notified whenever somebody
finishes or fails, that's called a race.
We also have a utility called
Promise.race, takes an array of promises.
And its definition is to say, I'm going to
wait for any resolution, whether that's
a fulfillment or a rejection,
any resolution of any of these promises,
whichever one crosses
the finish line first wins, and
everybody else gets ignored.
That's what Promise.race is about.
Here I'm showing a timeout idiom,
because we didn't answer earlier.
I kind of glossed over it,
hoping that you would either ask or
at least remember at this point.
We didn't ask, well, what happens
if my promise never gets resolved?
The way you handle that is the way we
handle any asynchronous task that may
never complete, which is to set
up some maximum timeout for it.
Here, what I'm doing is I've got p on
line 4 representing the promise that I
care about.
And then I'm creating another promise on
line 5, which I don't really care about,
it's just set up as a time bomb,
that after three seconds, it rejects.
One of two things is going
to occur in this scenario.
Either my promise is going to finish
in less than three seconds, and
I'm going to get its result, and move on
to line 11, with a success on line 12, or
the rejection promise is going to finish
first, in which case the other promise,
whether it ever finishes or not,
we're going to ignore it, and
we're going to move to line 13,
because this was a promise rejection.
We're going to handle a time out error.
>> Speaker 2: If the time out happens,
what happens to the original promise,
does it get garbage collected, or does it-
>> Kyle: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Stay around?
It would potentially get flushed.
>> Kyle: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
cuz there's no reference to it anymore.
>> Kyle: Yep, yep.
Promise.race throws away anything,
once it finishes,
it throws away all its references.
>> Kyle: [COUGH] Now this is not
a terribly graceful piece of code to write
every time you wanna time out a promise.
That would be nice if there was
some higher order obstruction for
timing out promises, and
it turns out there is.
Virtually every promise library out there
has something for timing out promises, and
out of the covers they're doing something
roughly like what I'm talking about or
setting up a race basically
>> Kyle: Promise.all and
Promise.race shift natively with
the API that comes in the browser.
But we can already start, and some of your
brains may already start to be thinking,
what about this abstraction,
what about this abstraction?
What about the one where it's
like I only care about the first
one to successfully cross the finish line.
We might call instead of calling that
a race we might call that first.
There's an abstraction for that and
libraries provide those abstractions.
What if I only care about the last one,
last one wins or we could call .last.
What if I want to know
that all of them rejected.
It's the inverse of Promise.all,
instead of all of them succeeding,
I want to know of all of them reject.
We could call that .none so
we could start to invent
dozens of different abstractions that can
help us and these abstractions become Lego
building blocks that we build our
more complex flow control center.
Every single step in our chain can be
one of these abstracted steps instead of
just a single,
if then sort of abstraction.
You want to look for
those common abstractions and
use them just like in functional
programming you wanna look for
things like map and reduce and develop
an instinct for not reinventing the wheel,
but using the wheel that's already been
invented and knowing how it works.
You want to develop that same
instinct around promise abstractions.
Rather than trying to invent
your own patterns, look for
ones that have already been
established and well worn.
>> Kyle: All right,
more reading about promises, I promised,
I promised you, pun unintended.
I promised you earlier that I
had written a bunch about this,
this link at the top link is the first in
a five part blog post series that I wrote.
It's pretty long, all about promises.
And I talk about error handling and
all kinds of other things.
I talk about cancelable promises.
It's all in there.
If you wanna read about promises in depth,
that's a blog post series.
I've written about promises extensively
in the book series, both in the Async and
performance book,
as well as the ES6 books, so
there's plenty to read there about them.
And if you want to use
promises in straight up native
form in a polyfill fashion that is
to use them in older browsers but
use them where there's no additions or
anything.
I wrote a polyfill for
promises called native-promise-only.
There are about a dozen or so
of this polyfills out there.
One word of caution on looking for
promise polyfills.
Something that kind of bothers me is that
there's quite a few libraries out there
which claim to be promise polyfills,
really what they are promise libraries,
that add a bunch of extra stuff on top of
the spec, add a bunch of extra helpers in.
Am I against adding helpers?
Absolutely not.
I'm about to show you a library that
I wrote that adds a bunch of helpers.
I'm a big fan of library helper's because
there's a lot of stuff we want to do
with promises.
Well I'm not a fan of his
adding a bunch of helpers and
then claiming to be a polyfill, because
a polyfill is supposed to be nothing but
the specification compliance.
No cutting corners,
no adding extra stuff and
there's a bunch of libraries out there
that sort of cut some corners and
add some extra things in, and
still call themselves polyfills.
Be cautious about looking for that.
You can trust that native
promise only does nothing but
implement the spec compliant
version of promise.